.TH "bitfield.h" 3 "28 Jul 2003" "VFML" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
bitfield.h \- 
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Compactly represent a bit field. 


.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fB_BITFIELD_\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIADT for compactly representing a bit field. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fB_BITFIELD_\fP \fBBitFieldStruct\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIADT for compactly representing a bit field. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef \fB_BITFIELD_\fP * \fBBitFieldPtr\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIADT for compactly representing a bit field. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "BitField \fBBitFieldNew\fP (int byteSize)"
.br
.RI "\fICreate a new BitField with the specified number of bits. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBBitFieldFree\fP (BitField b)"
.br
.RI "\fIFrees the memory associated with the BitField. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBBitFieldGetNumBytes\fP (BitField b)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the number of bytes being used to represent the BitField. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBBitFieldGetBit\fP (BitField b, long offset)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the value of the specifed bit. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBBitFieldSetBit\fP (BitField b, long offset, int val)"
.br
.RI "\fISets the value of the specified bit. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Typedef Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "typedef struct \fB_BITFIELD_\fP * \fBBitFieldPtr\fP"
.PP
ADT for compactly representing a bit field. See \fBbitfield.h\fP for more detail. 
.SS "typedef struct \fB_BITFIELD_\fP  \fBBitFieldStruct\fP"
.PP
ADT for compactly representing a bit field. See \fBbitfield.h\fP for more detail. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void BitFieldFree (BitField b)"
.PP
Frees the memory associated with the BitField. 
.SS "int BitFieldGetBit (BitField b, long offset)"
.PP
Returns the value of the specifed bit. 
.SS "int BitFieldGetNumBytes (BitField b)"
.PP
Returns the number of bytes being used to represent the BitField. 
.SS "BitField BitFieldNew (int byteSize)"
.PP
Create a new BitField with the specified number of bits. 
.SS "void BitFieldSetBit (BitField b, long offset, int val)"
.PP
Sets the value of the specified bit. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for VFML from the source code.
