.TH "Debug.h" 3 "28 Jul 2003" "VFML" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Debug.h \- 
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A set of functions that help your programs produce debugging output in a consistent way. 


.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDebugWarn\fP (int condition, char *str)"
.br
.RI "\fIOutputs string to the current target if condition is non-zero. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDebugError\fP (int condidion, char *str)"
.br
.RI "\fIIf condition is non-zero outputs string to the current target and halts the program. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDebugSetMessageLevel\fP (int level)"
.br
.RI "\fISets the level of message that will be reported by DebugMessage. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBDebugGetMessageLevel\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the current message level. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDebugMessage\fP (int condition, int level, char *str,...)"
.br
.RI "\fIFormats and prints a message if conditions are met. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBDebugSetTarget\fP (FILE *target)"
.br
.RI "\fISets the target for debugging output. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "FILE * \fBDebugGetTarget\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIGets the current target for debugging output. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void DebugError (int condidion, char * str)"
.PP
If condition is non-zero outputs string to the current target and halts the program. 
.SS "int DebugGetMessageLevel (void)"
.PP
Returns the current message level. 
.SS "FILE* DebugGetTarget (void)"
.PP
Gets the current target for debugging output. 
.SS "void DebugMessage (int condition, int level, char * str, ...)"
.PP
Formats and prints a message if conditions are met. If the condition is non-zero and the current message level is greater than level this calls printf with str as the format string, and any additional arguments as arguments. 
.SS "void DebugSetMessageLevel (int level)"
.PP
Sets the level of message that will be reported by DebugMessage. Defaults to 0. 
.SS "void DebugSetTarget (FILE * target)"
.PP
Sets the target for debugging output. Defaults to stdout. All future calls to the Debug functions will sent output to the specified file. 
.SS "void DebugWarn (int condition, char * str)"
.PP
Outputs string to the current target if condition is non-zero. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for VFML from the source code.
