.TH "Learning Programs" 3 "28 Jul 2003" "VFML" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Learning Programs \- 
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Learning programs that are included with VFML. 
.SS "Files"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbnlearn\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns the structure of a BeliefNet from a data set. Designed to be easily modified. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBc45wrapper\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls C4.5 and tests the learned tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBc50wrapper\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls C5.0 and tests the learned tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcvfdt\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns a DecisionTree from a high-speed time-changing data stream (or very large data set). \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBdecisionstump\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns a decision stump (a DecisionTree with only one split). \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBkmeans\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPerforms k-means clustering. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBmostcommonclass\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPredicts the most common class in the training data. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBnaivebayes\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Naive Bayes learner. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfbn1\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns the structure of a BeliefNet from a very large data set using sampling. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfbn2\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns the structure of a BeliefNet from a very large data set using sampling and a new search proceedure. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfdt\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns a decision tree from a high-speed data stream or very large data set. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfem\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPerforms EM clustering. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfkm\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPerforms k-means clustering accelerated with sampling. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
