.TH "Other Tools" 3 "28 Jul 2003" "VFML" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Other Tools \- 
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Some tools to help you work with data sets and learners. 
.SS "Files"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbatchtest\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPerforms cross validation of a collection of learners on a collection of datasets. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbeliefnetcorrupt\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIMakes some random changes to a BeliefNet. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbeliefnetdata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICreates a data set by sampling from a Bayesian Network. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbeliefnetscore\fP"
.br
.RI "\fITests a BeliefNet in several ways. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbindata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIConverts continuous attributes into discrete ones. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcleandata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICleans up a data set in several ways. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBclusterdata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICreates a synthetic data set from randomly generated clusters. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcombinedata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICombines a series of data sets into a single large one. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBfolddata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRandomly splits a data set into a collection of train/test pairs. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBsampledata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDraws a sample from a data set. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBshuffledata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRandomizes the order of a data set and rewrites it. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBtreedata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICreates a synthetic data set by sampling from a randomly generated DecisionTree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBuRunner\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIDistribute a collection of jobs across a cluster of computers. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBxvalidate\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPerforms cross validation of a learner on a data set. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
