.TH "Core APIs" 3 "28 Jul 2003" "VFML" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Core APIs \- 
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
These sections should be used as reference for details on the interfaces you can use in your programs. They contain detailed information on all of the APIs that VFML offers. 
.SS "Files"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBAttributeTracker.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIKeep a record of which attributes are active. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBBeliefNet.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Belief Net Structure with CPT local models. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBbnlearn-engine.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearn the structure of a BeliefNet from data. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBC45interface.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls the C4.5 decision tree learning system and returns the learned tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBDecisionTree.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Decision Tree Structure. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExample.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIADT for training (and testing, etc.) data. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExampleGenerator.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIGenerate a random (but reproducible) data set. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExampleGroupStats.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISufficient statistics for Entropy and Gini. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExampleSpec.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISchema for training data. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBREPrune.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPeforms reduced error pruning on a decision tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfdt-engine.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAn API which lets your program learn a DecisionTree from a high-speed data stream. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
