.TH "Decision Tree Section" 3 "28 Jul 2003" "VFML" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Decision Tree Section \- 
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
All of these are related to the use and construction of decision trees. 
.SS "Files"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBAttributeTracker.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIKeep a record of which attributes are active. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBC45interface.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls the C4.5 decision tree learning system and returns the learned tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBc45wrapper\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls C4.5 and tests the learned tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBc50wrapper\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICalls C5.0 and tests the learned tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBcvfdt\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns a DecisionTree from a high-speed time-changing data stream (or very large data set). \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBdecisionstump\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns a decision stump (a DecisionTree with only one split). \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBDecisionTree.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA Decision Tree Structure. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExample.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIADT for training (and testing, etc.) data. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExampleGroupStats.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISufficient statistics for Entropy and Gini. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBExampleSpec.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISchema for training data. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBREPrune.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIPeforms reduced error pruning on a decision tree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBtreedata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fICreates a synthetic data set by sampling from a randomly generated DecisionTree. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfdt\fP"
.br
.RI "\fILearns a decision tree from a high-speed data stream or very large data set. \fP"
.PP
.in +1c

.ti -1c
.RI "file \fBvfdt-engine.h\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAn API which lets your program learn a DecisionTree from a high-speed data stream. \fP"
.PP

.in -1c
